Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
I'm talking with Mike Brockie.
He is a Google developer
expert and it contributed to
the angular CLI and he
and I are both going
to be speaking@ngatlandghyphenatlandatlanta.org, which is
an angular conference. How are
you, sir? I'm not too
bad. I appreciate you having
me on. Yeah. How long
have you been doing JavaScript
and angular? Well, that's two
questions, I guess. Yeah, I
guess that's two separate questions.
A Java script. I probably
started maybe about five years
ago and angular probably about
three or four years. So
most of my experience with
JavaScript has been with angular,
but you've been in dev
for, for many, many years.
What, what led you to
JavaScript? I think it was
the proliferation of client side
tooling, namely jQuery, that kind
of fostered in the idea
of being able to do
more on the client and
that's what users wanted. Yeah.
Cause I feel like I've
been using JavaScript for, I
don't know, 12 or 13
years, but that JavaScript is
not today's JavaScript. You know
what I mean? So I
feel like it's like a
totally different language. Like I
shouldn't even say that out
loud. You know what I
mean? Cause I'm wondering if
someone might listen and say,
Oh, well he's only been
working for five years. That's
basically no time at all.
Absolutely. And I think that
speaks to like other information
that I did do some
JavaScript to way back when,
but I didn't really think
of it as being a
JavaScript developer back then just
doing some validation or small
things on the client side.
Okay. So you kind of
feel the same way it
does. It does seem like
it's a new language every
few years. I feel like
even the JavaScript of today.
And of course it is,
if you think about ESX
and all that kind of
stuff, it, it re and
the entire community reinvents itself
every few years, of course,
with anything that's rapidly changing
as new technology comes out,
especially with front end web,
there's a lot of change
and a lot of fluctuation
has takes a lot of
effort to keep up with
it. Now you have contributed
to angular and specifically to
the CLI or the command
line interface tool for angular.
Is that something that is
required to use? If one
is going to use angular,
it's not required, But with
any type of tooling, it
provides you a level of
assistance to get you started
faster and take care of
some menial tasks and other
things that you would otherwise
have to do by hand
or yourself and learn on
your own. So I use
NPM and I install it
as a global tool. And
then I get N G
a, which is a N
G. So I just, actually,
I just realized where the
N G came from an
angular and you type N
G new and then Fu
and then you get an
app. Is it generating an
app that's entirely out of
the box? Like it is
a complete app when you
say NG new. Absolutely. So
Yeah, you globally install it.
And then with NG new,
you get a new project
that you can run. You
can test, run end to
end tests, lint. There's a
whole bunch of different tooling
associated, more than just a
scaffolding tool like us. Something
like yeoman would give you.
And is it a best
practice? I mean, when you
say NG new is that
the only angular app you'll
ever need, what if you
already have an existing app?
There's some documentation about getting
an app that was created
by hand, or maybe through
some other tool and maybe
a C project to get
it integrated with the rest
of the tooling of the
CLI. But predominantly we strive
to get people to use
NG new, to create a
new project because best practices
change over time. And we
try to keep up with
the latest, best practices. A
lot of people that I
work with use IDs. So
when they think about making
new stuff, they go like
file new project, right? The
file menu, new menu project.
And then after the fact
they go file new item.
And we're where, where an
item is. Any number of
things is the angular CLI
the file, new project of
the command line for angular
apps. For right now, it
is we're looking into doing
some refactorings so that it's
more of a library and
not just a command line
interface, but the command line
interface will still remain. So
you can still do everything
you do from the command
line, but it would foster
in the ability to do
things like a file new
from an IDE and get
this result. Is it a
generalized scaffolder like, can I
add other templates when I,
I guess you say N
G after you've said new,
you say NG generate, and
then the name of the
thing you want to generate.
Correct. So you can generate
a number of different items
that make sense with inside
an angular application. But the
scaffolding logic is something that
has been recently redone, and
you can do your own
custom scaffolds. They're called schematics
within their, to be able
to generate your own different
items, whether or not the,
the file format is different
or tabs versus spaces or
any other tweaks that you
want to make based off
of your own organization. Oh,
okay. That's cool. So that
schematic concept is generic idea
of a tale of a
template, for lack of a
better word that lets you
go NG, generate Fu where
Fu is components or services
or classes or whatever. Exactly.
And we give a bunch
of those by default. But
like I said, if your
organization, or if you're a
project, do you want to
use some other different scaffolds
or create some things on
your own, then you can
do that through our schematics.
Although schematics is a very
generic library that it's not
just specific to the angular
scale. Oh, okay. It's used
for other things. It was
designed that it could be
for right now, the only
application I know of it
is with the angular CLI,
but it's designed so that
it can be used Elsewhere.
Okay. And these do most
companies that are like heavy
angular people or heavy angular
companies go and make new
schematics. Like, would I make
a new scaffold? If I,
in, in the, in the
course of making a regular
app, would I find myself
saying, Oh yeah, I need
to make a new custom
module or a new custom
scaffold. The answer right now
is no, but it's only
because they're pretty new as
far as I know, only
about a handful of people
are using it, but it
would, it was just reintroduced
in a recent version. So
it's a new thing, but
I envision a lot of
people taking advantage of that
to be able to create
their own different thing, their
own scaffolds. So whether or
not you have the use
of something, say like a
bootstrap that one may have
its own constructs that you
could add on your own
schematics into a particular collection.
And what specifically was just
introduced. You said that people
are not using scaffolds, not
making custom custom schematics the
idea of custom scaffolds. Okay.
So where I'm looking at
the docs and the docs
uses the term scaffold. And
then we, I feel like
we are interchanging scaffold and
schematic. Is that the same
idea? The same idea. So
the docs are, are lagging
behind with the development and
the introduction of the concept.
So that's kind of like
the effort that's going on
right now is to update
the docs. Well, that brings
up an interesting, an interesting
question kind of, and this
is a little bit of
a loaded question, so I
hope you understand no disrespect
intended, but it seems like,
like JavaScript is moving so
fast that if I were
going to bet my entire
company on it, I'm betting
my company on a bunch
of stuff that has, you
know, zero dot whatever as
their version number. And that
can make me use sometimes
a little bit afraid. Like,
should I count on this?
How mature and we know
angular is pretty mature. How
mature is the CLI The
CLI itself is pretty mature.
We've went beta, think about
a year and a half
ago and live Least a
year ago. I think it
was about when it went
live. So it's very stable.
We have a lot, a
large series of tests that
we've run, not only testing
the CLI, but also the
projects that generates as well
for, and then, so the
CLI itself is pretty stable.
Schematics as is, has been
live in. People are using
schematics as of the previous
version, a one dot four
it's already baked in. But
when I go, when I
go looking though, like, for
example, I find if I
go look for angular, sea
life, I go and Google
with being, for racing. It
was July I'll find like
stuff that looks suspicious, like
NG CLI dot GitHub. It
had like the logo and
it says command line interface
for angular apps. But then
it says 0.0 0.7. So
then I think to myself,
well, that's probably not real.
So then I started angular.io
and go from there. Are
there other competing CLRs or
just people who've decided that
there's is a CLI? I
think the one that you're
mentioning was a project that
was started independently for angular
JS, which would be anything
angular related with a version
of one.star, a whereas the
angular CLI the official one
that we work on is
for angular projects for version
two and later. So that's
really interesting. Maybe you could
take a moment and explain
that because you just said
angular JS and I felt
like there was an implied
version number. And then you
said angular and that implied
that that was a different
version number. Yes. So that's
the messaging and the nomenclature
that the team is trying
to use that is the
team is using that. We're
trying to get community adoption
with that angular JS is
anything with angular, one or
version one dot X and
angular is the name to
be used with anything angular
two or greater. Whereas the
version numbers with anything beyond
two is almost irrelevant or
trying to become irrelevant and
is just, Okay, so then
the angular CLI, which is@clidotangular.io
it's version 1.0, but it
generates angular two or angular
stuff, Correct. Being the tool
intends to lag a little
bit behind the main products
with just about anything. Sure.
The, our version numbers haven't
been aligned at least as
not as of yet. I
see that possibly happen in
the future, but it's not
a priority. Okay. When I
go and, and have multiple
angular projects on my system,
let's say I'm working on
two or three projects for
two or three different companies.
Might I have different versions
of the angular CLI? And
do I tie that to
the project or do I
have one global version? Aye.
So as each project is
generated, there's a local version,
a local dependency of the
angular CLI Vic it's generated
and installed. And what the
global version will do is
by itself, it wouldn't be
needed for creating new projects,
but at the same time,
if you run the global
by just type in N
G it will defer the
execution to the local. So
it will work with multiple
versions. Oh, that's clever. Okay.
So that it's scoped. So
if I have a local
angular CLI, or maybe I'm
even working in the CLI
myself, is that the same
as NPM link where I
type in G and I
make sure that I'm, even
though if I might accidentally
call the global one, it
will find the local one
and use that It's a
similar concept. Yes. That it
will defer to the local.
Okay, cool. So it doesn't
sound like it's too hard
to use and it does
the right thing and it's
quite smart. We aim to
make it as smart as
we can. You're quite modest.
What do you think about
CLS in general? Because I
feel like the first time,
like I was an old
Linux person 20 plus years
ago, but I feel like
when development tools that did
stuff like the angular, she
like kind of started the
first time. I really saw
that with, with rails where
rails came out and then
there was this suddenly an
opinionated command line, right? Not
a tool like arc and
said, not a command line,
like the Unix, you know,
new tools that we're used
to using. But the first
time an opinionated generator came
out, I thought was rails.
And then angular CLI is
kind of inspired by the
Ember CLI. And now it
seems like everybody has a
CLI. I think that, like
I said, tooling tends to
lag behind the actual development
of whatever tooling or the
tool is supporting. But by
making something with a command
line, there's no gooey, less
user experience to worry about
other, other still user experience
with commands and shortcuts and
what have you within there.
But it allows for, I
think it allows for more
rapid development, especially with environments
where you're using the command
line. Anyway, people who are
doing JavaScript are on the
command line anyway, do NPM
installs and update dependencies and
run their tests and do
a bunch of other things
as well. So to have
a command line there, or
a command line tool in
right there at your fingertips
and the tools you're already
using makes a lot of
sense. Yeah. And do, do
you ever get in trouble
with the opinionated newness of
them? The fact that they,
they, they want things to
look a certain way or
is it the fact that
I can modify those, those
scaffolds or those schematics? That
means that there's really no
issue. So prior to schematics,
there was really no good
way to customize what was
being output from the scaffolding
or the generator. And that
was one of the highly
requested features. So hence schematics
was born, whatever's being generated.
There was a lot of
feedback, some positive, some negative,
but yeah, everybody wants their
own different flavor within there.
And a lot of the
previous command line interfaces that
came out and you mentioned
rails and member both work
off of convention based libraries,
right? Both rails. I ended
up where the angular ecosystem
is not really convention based.
It's configuration based. So the
mentality that I took with
one when I got involved
with the project was to
say, all right, the convention
will be the style guide.
And that's what most people
will develop their applications towards.
And that's what we will
try to follow with the
CLI. Okay. That makes sense.
But there is a config
schema though, right? You can
express the things that matter
to you as an angler.
Yes. We started to provide
some customization. So with an
angular component, if you wanted
to say, have your styles
or your templates in line
in this single TypeScript file,
then you can specify that
either at the command line
or via configuration file. Okay.
And is that something that
has smart defaults? Like I
don't have to, I wondering
how much I have to
worry about that kind of
stuff. Yeah. Everything has it's
on defaults at all. I'll
work out of the box,
but then you can customize
and tweak your configuration file
as you see fit. When,
when I go, let me
back up then. So popping
off the stack when I
start out and I decided
I've, I'm going to do
an angular application, this is
the recommended way. And I
go and say, NG new
and start making my project.
When I type NG serve.
That's being served by node
. Is it the same
as am I, is anything
special happening when I type
NG serve? Oh, of course.
A lot of things are
happening in order to get
modern tooling, to run in
current browsers. So projects created
with the angular CLI are
built off of TypeScript and
TypeScript doesn't run in browsers.
So the compilation steps needed
for that. And also if
you're using a CSS, preprocessor
that logic needs to be
run as part of the
build process prior to the
application being served. Ah, okay.
So then NG serve implies,
Correct. There is an NG
build command as well, which
is more so, Hey, prepare
what I've developed for release.
Whereas NG serve spins up
a local development server to
allow you to do like
a live reload Code, see
some code, write some code,
see some code iterations. That's
cool. And I understand that
there's testing and also end
to end testing E E
correct. So obviously you can
run your through your unit
tests, which is what NG
tests will execute for you
as well as the end.
Denta so basically grab a
serum wheel from the browser
and drive your application from
beginning to end or whatever
processes you want to run
through to test live in
the browser or multiple browsers.
When, when I say NG
serve, is that a pipeline
like a build pipeline, and
I can modify and add,
I could do testing before
I served, or I can
do whatever I want to
do. Those would be separate
commands. So you can serve
the application to do your
own execution of it or
running your test separately. What
if I wanted something that
wasn't node in the, if
I said NG serve and
I was going to have,
I dunno, dot net or
groovy on grails or some
other things. So I'm using
angular on the front end,
but not making an opinion
about the backend. Now the,
Do you have running note
on the backend? When you
say that to clarify, it's
not necessarily running a node
or express application, it's actually
a Webpack server that's currently
running. Ah, yeah. But if
you wanted to customize to
run them within different environment,
what I've seen people doing
is rather than Jew, or
to jump out of the
box of what's currently there
is to run your build
in a watch mode. So
it'll dump those files to
disk and you can serve
your application as you currently
do with your existing backend
or potentially set up a
proxy configuration to be able
to pass that traffic to
another server. Okay. So I'm
trying to, I'm trying to
parse this. You said it's
running a Webpack server. So
Webpack is a, is a
bundler. It's a dependency management
it's modules. It's all that
stuff. It it's a client
side builder that preps what
you're going to put into
production. Is that correct? That
is correct. But does Webpack
also serve CSS files when
asked? Is it a web
server? Does it run lib,
lib, UV? I'm not familiar
with lib UV. The thing
under no. Does it like
is, is Webpack listening on
HTTP? Because when I'm saying,
when you type NG serve,
is it firing up node
server dot JS, and then
listening? No, a Webpack dev
server may inside the, under
the hood be doing that.
I've never looked into that
code. Okay. I'm asking all
the questions I have. No,
you're fine. The Webpack dev
server is a development web
server provided by Webpack that
will run all of its
bundling and everything within there
in a watch mode to
be able to run essentially
file watches on your source
code, compile it or transpile
it in memory and serve
it out of memory. All
right. That is my confusion.
So, so Webpack Webpack is
the bundler Webpack dev server
is a separate project. It's
a, it's a, it's a
thing that supports Webpack and
the Webpack middleware. Correct. And
that allows it to then
for the purposes of just
development, serves them from memory,
serves all the Webpack assets
from memory. Correct. Okay. That
was my confusion. So I,
I conflated Webpack and the
Webpack dev server and perhaps
the web server Webpack dev
server uses node and love
UV underneath. It doesn't matter.
But it says like, what
I'm hearing you say is
that if you have a
web Webpack, a focused development
pipeline, angular, CLI Webpack, and
the Webpack dev server all
work great together and they
are best practices For right
now. Yes, still right now,
it's going To change tomorrow.
JavaScript changes and six months
a year, two years, five
years at the time. Cause
you're being you're you're I
don't know if you're being
cagey or if you're just
being, you know, correct. In
the sense of like, yes.
At the time that Mike
and I recorded this, it
is correct. But this is,
yeah. Things may have changed
by the time you heard
this podcast, but things always
change things always. But that's
the nice thing about the
way the CLI is put
together right now is that
you don't need to worry
about it running the command
NG serve and all of
that logic of all right.
Yes. It will run a
Webpack configuration through Webpack and
start the Webpack dev server
for you is all transparent
to you. You just run
it into serv and your
application is automatically running. Okay.
So there you go. So,
so let's again, let's pop
back on the stack. Once
I've installed the angular CLI
are you getting Webpack for
me in the webcast dev
server, are you how much
work is being done for
me? Are you really hiding
all the yucky bits that
I don't want to worry
about? Of course that's awesome.
Main reason I got involved
with this project is that
modern web development is very
complicated and that there's a
lot of different things you
need to learn. And if
you can take those, that
scary list of say 15,
20 different things that somebody
needs to learn and whittle
it down to four or
five, yeah. It makes them
more accessible and more consumable
to people who may not
be fully invested into front
end web development. That's cool.
So that, that is the
essence of what angular CLI
and what you yourself are
trying to do. Absolutely cool.
And you've actually got webinars
online. If people go and
search for, for Mike, last
name is B R O
C C H I, not
broccoli, but Brockie. You've got
a webinars and you've got
talks that you've given on
using the CLI, but one
of your particular ones that
I like is your, you
did a live webinar on
YouTube, on angular CLI and
the basically in 35 minutes,
you break it all down.
I've, I've done a few,
I've done a few talks
at conferences, but that's the
nice thing, like I said
about the tool is that
a kind of sells itself
and I've been fortunate enough
at some conferences and some
webinars to be able to
just show it and kind
of open people's eyes to
other ways of doing their
tooling And is, is angular
and angular CLI supportive of
other things like are like,
again, again, if I'm saying
the wrong thing, I apologize.
Like when you say a
component or is that a
web component or is it
an angular component? And what
if I want to use
web components Again, at the
time of this recording, they
are separate things, but conceptually
they're very similar and that
and angular component right now,
it works in the angular
ecosystem, but actually less week
at angular mix, there was
an announcement about angular elements,
which is a way of
taking an angular component and
to compile it out into
a raw web component. And
that's still experimental at this
time. So the idea would
be that you are, you
would create something, whether or
not say you created a
calendar component that works within
your angle application, but you
could compile it in a
way and render it out
to be a raw web
component that could be consumable
through raw JavaScript without having
the full angular runtime, or
potentially use it in other
ecosystems, whether or not is
react view, Ember polymer, any
of the other web frameworks
out there. Okay. Okay. If
you say without the angular
one time, what if can,
I guess I can mix
and match, right. If, if
Wondering if I want that
or not, it's hard to
make those kinds of decisions.
Of course it is. But
if you're in an environment
or an organization that is
using multiple technologies and you
create a widget that is
useful within your application, but
then you can share it
to another part of your
organization that is using a
different technology that gives you
a lot of power to
be able to do a
lot of different things. Okay.
Do, is there a way
to tell the angular CLI
the different, like things that
I have already picked or
the different versions of stuff
I've already picked? So it
doesn't generate something that would
be incompatible or do I
not need to worry about
that? It should all be
it's all, as of right
now, based off of the
project that gets generated initially,
ah, right. I'll be compatible,
but as you'll continue to
upgrade, but that brings up
an idea that is in
our future plans that have
a command of say, I
don't know the exact naming,
but if say you run
NG upgrade or NG update
that would update some of
the dependencies upon within your
application, but also be able
to apply scripts to your
application, to up to manage
any breaking changes that were
there to make those changes
automatically for you. That would
be a really cool feature.
I think that that when
one makes a generator, the
first version is like, Hey,
I made this thing. I
generated some stuff that's cool.
The next step is to
make that generator maybe for
lack of a better word
re entrant, where I could
modify code that has already
been generated. I could give
it an understanding of what
has already been generated. And
it would then be contextually
re entrant and, and do
the right thing based on
things that it's seen that
I have already done. And
it wouldn't necessarily torch my
generated code. Very true. And
I think that a lot
of those types of toolings
will be coming in the
future. Thanks to the power
of TypeScript, by being able
to look into an application
and get metadata out of
your application to see exactly
there and where to make
those specific changes. Hmm. Would
you say that is angular
CLI something that has a
first timers friendly issues? Could
I go in there as
a new, I knew new
person and open source and
maybe find issues that are
help wanted, or set aside
for, for people who might
be a good first issue
for them to get involved
in open source? Absolutely. We
have a label that we
put on those types of
issues. Some are easy earlier
than others. Some as simple
as like a single character
typo, even at times, I'll
end up tweeting out about,
Oh, just to kind of
gain some exposure and, and
help people walk through, getting
the first commit in, or
what have you, and try
to favor people who don't
have any commits or contributions
yet to kind of get
them involved in the ecosystem.
That's cool. It looks like
you've got a not only
help wanted as a label,
but you also have effort,
which I think is pretty
cool where you have easy
like hours or medium, like
days or hard, like weeks
or months, which I think
is a clever way to
express it Effort. I think
that's helpful for anybody who's
looking to get involved as
well as from a management
of our, what do we
want to try and tackle
for our future release and
how much effort is required
on any particular issue? Yeah.
Yeah. Like I just went,
ah, this is actually quite
a lovely labeling system you
have here. I just went
over to the, to angular
CLI and I went to
the labels and I said,
I want issues that are
easy, where there's help wanted.
And then additionally, I'm seeing
priority like, and severity. So
here's one that is easy
and hours. People can jump
in any time. It's definitely
required. Like people want it,
but it has severity one,
which makes it confusing, but
not blocking versus severity two,
which is inconvenient. That's a
quite a nice way to,
to express things. Yeah. We
try to triage our issue
Regularly so that we know
what the community needs, but
if you're out there searching,
does, I mean, we may
see a pull request from
you in the future. You
know, I, I might just
change the spelling error and
then declare that I'm an
angular CLI developer, but no,
I'm still learning. I'm still
learning just like our listeners
are learning and I want
to be able to explore
and encourage people to do
their first pull requests. So
I like that you have
a friendly project for that.
I think GitHub recently in
there Something where it's actually
integrated into the GitHub platform
of a specific label that
we may be switching to
for those They did. There's
been lots of talk in
this space and Kent gods
and I did first timers
only. And then Charlotte did
your first PR and then
now I'll get hub. It
looks like they are standardizing
on one. And I think
that anything that gets people
excited about open source and
makes a standard and easy
way for someone to find,
you know, new and, you
know, reasonably chunked bits of
work to go and get
involved and do their first
poll requests, I think is
positive thing. Absolutely. That's how
I got first involved with
the project was just going
and grabbing an issue was
not tagged at the time
because the project was relatively
new, but yeah, I grabbed
the issue and started working
on it and it grew
into what is now, what
job was it hard to?
Oh, actually like a job
job, like paid job. Yes.
So that's how I'm currently
working on the angular team
as a contractor right now.
Nice. So it actually can
turn in open source can
turn into a full time
gig. Absolutely. That is pretty
slick. That seems like that's
almost another show right there
to explain to people how
to make opensource your first
time, your first big contract.
Is that something that you,
that it was luck based
or sticking to it based
or like, what was the
essence of the thing that,
that turned it into a,
from a hobby to a,
a full time contract? Like,
you know what I mean?
Like right. Time, right place.
I think it was a
combination of the two the
right time, right place, right.
Project, community desire. And yeah,
I think it was just
like a perfect storm of
situations that has led to
where I am now. That's
fantastic. Congratulations to you. And
where can people go and
see your videos and learn
about the stuff that you're
working on? I have yet
to put together a blog
or any type of site
about me. I've typically just
communicate mostly online through Twitter.
My Twitter handle is Brocco
B R O C C
O a nickname that I
gained in college. And you've
kind of stuck with since
then. Yeah. All right. Well,
you can talk to Mike
at, at Bronco and talk
about angular and he'll point
you to some of his
great videos and the work
that they're doing on the
angular. CLI thanks so much
for chatting with me today.
I appreciate you taking the
time to chat with me.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .